menu "Speakup console speech" 
config SPEAKUP
	bool "Speakup console speech"
	---help---
		This is the base 'glue' code for speakup, the Linux kernel speech
		synthesization engine. speakup supports a variety of serial-based
		speech synthesizers and can also drive userspace speech software
		synthesization software.

		For more info, see http://www.linux-speakup.org

config SPEAKUP_CORE
	depends on SPEAKUP
	tristate "Speakup engine"
	---help---
		This is the Speakup screen reader.  Think of it as a
		video console for blind people.  If built in to the
		kernel, it can speak everything on the text console from
		boot up to shutdown.  For more information on Speakup,
		point your browser at http://www.linux-speakup.org/. 
		There is also a mailing list at the above url that you
		can subscribe to.
		
		Supported synthesizers are accent sa, accent pc, appollo
		II., Auddapter, Braille 'n Speak, Dectalk external
		(old), Dectalk PC (full length isa board), Dectalk
		express, Doubletalk, Doubletalk LT or Litetalk,
		Keynote
		Gold internal PC, software synthesizers, Speakout, and transport.
		
		Speakup can either be built in or compiled as a module
		by answering y or m.  If you answer y here, then you
		must answer either y or m to at least one of the
		synthesizer drivers below.  If you answer m here, then
		the synthesizer drivers below can only be built as
		modules.
		
		These drivers are not standalone drivers, but must be
		used in conjunction with Speakup.  Think of them as
		video cards for blind people.
		
		
		The Dectalk pc driver can only be built as a module, and
		requires software to be pre-loaded on to the card before
		the module can be loaded.  See the decpc choice below
		for more details.
		
		If you are not a blind person, or don't have access to
		one of the listed synthesizers, you should say n.

config SPEAKUP_SYNTH_SOFT
	depends on SPEAKUP_CORE
	tristate "Software synthesizer"
	---help---
		This is the software synthesizer device node.  It will
		register a device /dev/sftsyn which midware programs
		and speech
		daemons may open and read to provide kernel output to
		software synths
		such as festival, flite, tuxtalk and so forth.  You
		can select 'y' or
		'm' to have it built-in to the kernel or loaded as a module.

endmenu

